Documentation for the idmclib C library
Last modified: 03/01/2007 by Antonio, Fabio Di Narzo

1. Compiling
On linux/unix platforms, it maybe convenient to link dynamically. For windows distribution, static linking maybe far better.
Edit Makefile.inc to suite your system configuration. Then type:
make
at the prompt to build 'all'.

1.1 Dependencies
GLS-1.8 and LUA-5.0 (or compatibles) are required for compiling/linking the idmclib library

1.2 Configuration
No automagic tools are used. You're supposed to use gcc compiler (mingw under windows) and gnu make (MSYS under windows).
You manually configure building process for your system by editing 'Makefile.inc' file in top directory.
Mainly, you will have to set LUA, GSL and LAPACK libraries locations (include files and compiled libs).
Swig, java, python and R support files are needed if you want to build Java, Python and R bindings.
	
2. API
Watch at the test directory for usage examples.
The library is ideally divided in modules
idmc_model: basic model allocation/methods
idmc_traj: trajectories (for discrete and continuous models) allocation/methods
idmc_lexp: Lyapunov spectrum for a given model (discrete and continuous)
idmc_cycles: basic period-k cycles finding support functions. Also a separate routine for eigenvalues modulus of real nonsimmetric matrices is provided
idmc_raster: mostly here for internal use. Data structures and methods for (integer) raster image manipulation. Used in the idmc_basin module
idmc_basin: fast algorithm for identifying basins of attraction of 2-dimensional maps

3. Python bindings
Low-level python bindings are provided via SWIG.
These are mainly intended for testing/prototyping purposes.
Watch at the pydmcTest.py file for usage examples, and to the various idmc_*.i interface files for the API.

4. Java bindings
Java bindings are provided via SWIG. They're low-level, so maybe you'll need to write your own high-level wrappers for using in your project.
Whatch at the SWIG interface files and to generated java files for the API. A full usage example is the companion iDMC software (2.x.x series).

5. R bindings
R bindings are totally written by hand. They're incomplete and low-level, but working and usable 
(tests succesfully run under linux and windows).
Some object-oriented R wrapping code was written in the ridmc.R file.
Watch at the ridmcTest.R file for usage examples, and to the various C sources for the API.

6. BLAS/LAPACK
The DGEER lapack routine is used for computing eigenvalues of real, nonsymmetric matrices. This added dependency on blas and lapack libraries.
A minimal subset of these libraries is included in idmclib source distribution. This is especially useful under windows,
where you can statically compile them with no added troubles.
Anyway, you can always try to link against other blas/lapack implementations, as the ATLAS, AMD ACML or the Intel MKL. For this, you'll have to manually hack the building process.

APPENDIX A. Step-by-step windows compiling instructions (idmclib + java bindings)
- Install JDK-1.5 (if you don't already have it)
- Download and unpack swig-1.3 (www.swig.org). Add the folder to the system path.
- Install MinGW: C and Fortran compilers
- Install MSYS (with GNU make)
- Download and compile under MinGW/MSYS the LUA-5.0 and GSL-1.8 packages (maybe you can find ready-compiled packages). Copy generated static libraries files (i.e.: liblua.a, liblualib.a, libgsl.a, libgslcblas.a) to the 'c:\mingw\lib' folder
- Unpack idmclib package somewhere. From the MSYS prompt, type:
	# cp Makefile.inc Makefile.inc.bak
	# cp Makefile.inc.win Makefile.inc
	Edit 'Makefile.inc' to reflect your system configuration. Perhaps you will only have to set the JDK paths. Finally, type:
	# make idmclib && make jidmc
